docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to SkillBucket

SkillBucket is a project inspired by, built for, and maintained by, you. below are instructions for how to contribute to SkillBucket, they are general steps with links to more detailed explanations where available.

## Contributing

> ⚠️ SkillBucket uses `develop` as the main integration branch.
> All pull requests should target `develop`, not `main`.


### Step 1: clone the repo

Clone the SkillBucket GitHub repository by running
```bash
git clone git@github.com:ItaiAdd/skill_bucket.git
```
---
### Step 2: switch to the develop branch

Change to the ```develop``` branch by running
```bash
git checkout develop
```
---
### Step 3: create your feature branch

The branch naming convention is ```<TYPE>/<NUMBER>-<DESCRIPTION>``` ([see more here](#Branch-Naming-Conventions)).

```bash
git checkout -b <BRANCH NAME>
```
---
### Step 4: Set up the development environment

The development environment can be set up quickly using [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) or manually. For a quick setup make sure GNU Make is installed and run

```bash
make setup
```

from the project root directory. Other more fine grained control is available through defined Make workflows (run ```make help``` for more options).

For manual setup details see [Manual Setup Options](#Manual-Setup).

---

### Step 5: make and commit your changes/additions

You can now make your changes. It is a best practice to **commit little changes often** rather than a couple of massive commits. To commit and push changes run the following.

```bash
git add <files/ directories you want to include>
```

or

```bash
git add .
```
to add all changes. **Note: this adds ALL changes to anything not included in the .gitignore file, be careful not to include anything private**.

Once you have added your changes, commit them by running

```bash
git commit -m <short commit message>
```
Commit messages should be short, descriptive, and written in the imperative
 (e.g. "Add skill query endpoint", not "Added skill query endpoint").

 Lastly you can push your changes to a feature branch by running

```bash
git push -u origin <branch name>
```
where the branch name is the one you made earlier (```<TYPE>/<NUMBER>-<DESCRIPTION>```).

### Step 6: make a pull request

Before opening a pull request, please make sure that:

- Tests pass locally (`make test`)
- New functionality includes tests where appropriate
- Documentation is updated if behaviour changes

When you have finalised your contribution, make a pull request (PR) into the ```develop``` branch. There will be templates available for each [contribution type](#TYPE). If your PR fixes, resolves, or closes an issue, please include the relevant keyword (e.g ```Closes #123```).

Resolve any comments left on the PR, and once it’s merged — enjoy the cred 🎉


## Manual Setup
Manual setup instructions will be added soon.
Until then, please use the automated setup via `make setup`.


## Branch Naming Conventions

Branches should be named using the standard format

```<TYPE>/<NUMBER>-<DESCRIPTION>```

### TYPE

The branch type indicates the objective of the work being done such as adding a feature or fixing a bug. The table below shows which ```TYPE``` label to use for different objectives.

TYPE | when to use
--- | ---
```feature``` | Adding new functionality
```bugfix``` | Standard bug fixes
```hotfix``` | Urgent production fix (e.g broken API endpoint)
```docs``` | Adding documentation with no code changes
```tests``` | Adding tests without changes to the core code

### NUMBER
This number links what you did to an initial feature request, bug report or other reason for starting the work you did. The ```NUMBER``` should be one of:

- An issue number from a GitHub issue on the SkillBucket repo.
- A ticket number from the SkillBucket ticket board.

**If you have a feature idea which has not already been made into an issue or ticket please make one before you begin your work.**

### DESCRIPTION
The description should briefly summarise what the point of the work is. The ```DESCRIPTION``` should be snake case and no more than 3 or 4 words and should be as specific as possible. Examples could be:

- utils_unit_tests
- readme_updates
- skill_query_endpoint
- agent_response_error_handling

Commit message:

Bugfix/6 allow multiple pr templates (#8)
* Add default PR template

* Add expand=1 query param

* Add PR template docs

* Fixes #6

docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to SkillBucket

SkillBucket is a project inspired by, built for, and maintained by, you. below are instructions for how to contribute to SkillBucket, they are general steps with links to more detailed explanations where available.

## Contributing

> ⚠️ SkillBucket uses `develop` as the main integration branch.
> All pull requests should target `develop`, not `main`.


### Step 1: clone the repo

Clone the SkillBucket GitHub repository by running
```bash
git clone git@github.com:ItaiAdd/skill_bucket.git
```
---
### Step 2: switch to the develop branch

Change to the ```develop``` branch by running
```bash
git checkout develop
```
---
### Step 3: create your feature branch

The branch naming convention is ```<TYPE>/<NUMBER>-<DESCRIPTION>``` ([see more here](#Branch-Naming-Conventions)).

```bash
git checkout -b <BRANCH NAME>
```
---
### Step 4: Set up the development environment

The development environment can be set up quickly using [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) or manually. For a quick setup make sure GNU Make is installed and run

```bash
make setup
```

from the project root directory. Other more fine grained control is available through defined Make workflows (run ```make help``` for more options).

For manual setup details see [Manual Setup Options](#Manual-Setup).

---

### Step 5: make and commit your changes/additions

You can now make your changes. It is a best practice to **commit little changes often** rather than a couple of massive commits. To commit and push changes run the following.

```bash
git add <files/ directories you want to include>
```

or

```bash
git add .
```
to add all changes. **Note: this adds ALL changes to anything not included in the .gitignore file, be careful not to include anything private**.

Once you have added your changes, commit them by running

```bash
git commit -m <short commit message>
```
Commit messages should be short, descriptive, and written in the imperative
 (e.g. "Add skill query endpoint", not "Added skill query endpoint").

 Lastly you can push your changes to a feature branch by running

```bash
git push -u origin <branch name>
```
where the branch name is the one you made earlier (```<TYPE>/<NUMBER>-<DESCRIPTION>```).

### Step 6: make a pull request

Before opening a pull request, please make sure that:

- Tests pass locally (`make test`)
- New functionality includes tests where appropriate
- Documentation is updated if behaviour changes

When you have finalised your contribution, make a pull request (PR) into the `develop` branch. There will be templates available for each [contribution type](#TYPE). These templates can be accessed by switching to the preview view on the PR description and then clicking the approapriate option ([more on PR templates here](#pull-request-templates)). If your PR fixes, resolves, or closes an issue, please include the relevant keyword (e.g `Closes #123`) in the PR message.

Resolve any comments left on the PR, and once it’s merged — enjoy the cred 🎉


## Manual Setup
Manual setup instructions will be added soon.
Until then, please use the automated setup via `make setup`.


## Branch Naming Conventions

Branches should be named using the standard format

```<TYPE>/<NUMBER>-<DESCRIPTION>```

### TYPE

The branch type indicates the objective of the work being done such as adding a feature or fixing a bug. The table below shows which ```TYPE``` label to use for different objectives.

TYPE | when to use
--- | ---
```feature``` | Adding new functionality
```bugfix``` | Standard bug fixes
```hotfix``` | Urgent production fix (e.g broken API endpoint)
```docs``` | Adding documentation with no code changes
```tests``` | Adding tests without changes to the core code

### NUMBER
This number links what you did to an initial feature request, bug report or other reason for starting the work you did. The ```NUMBER``` should be one of:

- An issue number from a GitHub issue on the SkillBucket repo.
- A ticket number from the SkillBucket ticket board.

**If you have a feature idea which has not already been made into an issue or ticket please make one before you begin your work.**

### DESCRIPTION
The description should briefly summarise what the point of the work is. The ```DESCRIPTION``` should be snake case and no more than 3 or 4 words and should be as specific as possible. Examples could be:

- utils_unit_tests
- readme_updates
- skill_query_endpoint
- agent_response_error_handling


## Pull Request Templates

Each [branch type](#type) has an associated PR template all of which can be found in [`.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATES`](../.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/). There are 3 ways of using these templates.

1. When creating a PR, you will find a default PR message in the description. switching to the preview view will allow you to click on the options. Clicking on an option will open the template in the message editor.

2. Add a query parameter to the URL for the branch comparison page of the form `?expand=1&template=<template_filename>`, for example `https://github.com/<org>/<repo>/compare/<branch>?expand=1&template=feature.md`. After adding this reload the new URL and the template should appear in the message editor.

3. The other way to use a template is to simply copy and paste the raw markdown code from on of the template files. ⚠️ Note you should use the version of the template files on the `main` branch.
